---
title: "Borrowers"
metaTitle: "Introduction to Haptic Finance"
metaDescription: "Increase capital efficiency and reduce the impact of impermanent loss."
---

## What are the benefits?

Haptic finance aims to be a friendly on-ramp for the average DeFi user who seeks to engage in liquidity provisioning and yield farming activities. Our mission is to empower users and enhance their decision making process by providing them with context and awareness. As such, Haptic offers real-time tracking of impermanent loss coupled with detailed LP stats. Our user interface is designed to guide and reward users for optimal behavior and maximum profit. 

## How does it work?

Borrowers engage with Haptic by depositing ETH and selecting one of the available protocols as the loan provider. E.g., if they choose Synthetix, they will receive sUSD, with a 150% C-ratio. If ETH/USD is $3000, this means that by depositing 1 ETH, they can mint roughly 2000 sUSD. In addition, the loan is subject to an interest rate(\*). The next step is selecting the desired liquidity pool, initially, we will support only Uniswap but this will change in the future. Once a choice is made, the protocol will execute the token swaps(s) and add liquidity onto the pool. As a result, the borrower engages in LP provisioning and his impermanent loss starts being tracked, together with any earnings from exchange fees generated by his position. From this time on, the borrower must keep his account in check, in order to benefit from impermanent loss compensation and avoid liquidation. 

## I/L compensation

Borrowers can decide at any time to exit their position and withdraw the ETH deposited. Upon such action, liquidity is withdrawn and the outstanding loan is paid back, including any interest. Under normal market conditions, the protocol will calculate any impermanent loss and disburse compensation denominated in TDA. Borrower can choose to automatically swap TDA for the loaned token and withdraw their principal plus profit. During heavy market volatility, the protocol will offer rewards in change for the user locking the liquidity position for a certain amount of time, e.g. 15 days. Rewards offered will range from HAP token to exclusive NFTs.

## Loan health

In the above example, if ETH/USD takes a sharp downturn and the underlying loan c-ratio falls below liquidation ratio(\*), the position becomes at risk of being liquidated. Under such circumstance, the protocol may partially sell the ETH deposited in order to pay back the outstanding loan, plus a liquidation fee(\*). As a result of a partial liquidation, the account c-ratio is restored and the loan stops being eligible for I/L compensation of the related liquidity position. In this scenario, the user could avoid being impacted by either depositing more collateral or reducing his LP position ahead of the liquidation. 

## Liquidation

The loan liquidation ratio is a treshold for the loan c-ratio. Once reached, it signals that the loan is approaching a status-quo where the collateral value is not enough to cover the loan outstanding amount plus interest. This value depends on the loan provider c-ratio and may vary across providers. The Haptic user interface will alert borrowers of the risk of liquidation ahead of time, in order to avoid the likelihood of this event taking place. The liquidation fee is a penalty imposed by some loan providers for incurring in a liquidation and may also vary depending on the provider.

## Fees

The protocol will charge a small fee (0.3%) upon the execution of certain risky operations, such as withdrawing liquidity under high volatility conditions.

(\*) *may vary across protocols*


## Links

[Website](https://haptic.finance) / [Medium](https://hapticfinance.medium.com/) / [Twitter](https://twitter.com/hapticfinance/) / [Discord](https://twitter.com/hapticfinance/) / [Github](https://github.com/hapticfinance/)