---
title: "Stakers"
metaTitle: "Syntax Highlighting is the meta title tag for this page"
metaDescription: "This is the meta description for this page"
---

## HAP backed debt

Debt on the Haptic protocol is backed by HAP tokens. Stakers lock HAP as collateral using our user interface and mint a desired amount of tokenized debt asset (TDA). TDA is currently backed by a 400% c-ratio. This may change in the future, as determined by the community via decentralized governance mechanisms. The c-ratio guarantees that the value of the collateral deposited in enough to absorb most price shocks, without incurring in liquidation risk. Stakers' debt fluctuates as a result of impermanent loss action and borrowers' actions. When a staker wants to exit their position and withdraw HAP collateral, they must pay back their original debt plus any surplus by burning TDA.

## Why staking

Stakers represent the debt pool backing and as such they are central to the system. For this role, they are rewarded with: 

 1. Weekly inflationary supply  
 2. Extra yields generated by the Treasury
 3. Protocol fees.

Every week, 80% of the inflationary supply minted is distributed to stakers as a reward. Additionally, the Treasury is able to generate extra yield from LP tokens obtained via the LP bonding process and redirect them to stakers, along with 20% of protocol fees. Stakers take on the overall debt risk and enable impermanent loss compensation. They will be able to hedge against this risk through the Haptic protocol, with a combination of options and futures at an added cost. Alternatively, they can deploy their own hedging strategy by taking positions external to the system.

## Minting TDA

An HAP holder can mint TDA by locking their HAP as collateral on the Haptic protocol. Here is how it works under the hood:

* Haptic protocol checks that the HAP staker has enough tokens to mint the desired amount of TDA. 
* Staker receives debt shares to track debt amount when minting or burning TDA.
* TDA is issued to the staker's wallet.

If HAP/USD rate increases, the system will automatically unlock a portion of the staker's HAP, which can be used to mint more TDA if the staker whishes so. On the other hand, if the rate decreases, the system will require more collateral and as a result, the staker c-ratio may fall below target. Under this circumstance, the staker has a choice of adding more collateral, either acquired on the market or via LP bonding, or pay their debt by burning TDA. 

## Burning TDA

When a staker wishes to exit the system or reduce their debt to unlock staked HAP, they must pay back their debt. If the debt pool fluctuates while they are staked, they might have to burn more or less TDA than they minted originally. The process can be summed as follows:

* Haptic protocol checks the staker's debt balance and if they have enough TDA, their debt is removed from pool.
* The amount of TDA required is burned and the total supply of TDA is updated to reflect it. 
* HAP balance gets unlocked.


## Debt shares
[Glossary definition](/glossary/#hapticdebtshares(hds))

Debt in the system changes according to borrowers and stakers' actions and the effect of impermanent loss across the liquidity pools the protocol is engaged with. Debt shares keep track of the percentage of debt owned by a staker, represented as an ERC20 compatible token for maximum composability.

## LP bonding
[Glossary definition](/glossary/#lpbonding)

Stakers will be able to trade LP tokens for certain pairs in change for discount HAP tokens, which will be automatically locked in the system as collateral. This is useful as it allows the protocol to control and direct his own liquidity and serves as mechanism to keep the account in check for stakers.

## Liquidation

In case of HAP price contraction, the amount of debt accumulated might cause the account c-ratio to fall below the liquidation target, currently set at 200%. Under such circumstance, the staker might be flagged for liquidation and their collateral will be partially liquidated in order to restore the account optimal c-ratio target (400%).

## Links

[Website](https://haptic.finance) / [Medium](https://hapticfinance.medium.com/) / [Twitter](https://twitter.com/hapticfinance/) / [Discord](https://twitter.com/hapticfinance/) / [Github](https://github.com/hapticfinance/)